Judges chapter number seven, as you know,
our Missions Conference is just a couple of weeks away
and it's my prayer and my desire
that we will be prepared spiritually
for the special conference.
And Missions Conference is really,
in my mind and my estimation,
it's almost like a combination of revival meeting,
tight preaching, plus opportunity to hear
about particular fields and ministries
that God has called people to.
Obviously, our ultimate desire
is that the Lord Jesus Christ alone
would be exalted and magnified through all that's done.
And last week on Sunday evening,
in preparation for our Missions Conference,
we examined a portion of Exodus chapter number three.
And as we examined a portion of that familiar chapter,
we said that there were at least two obvious truths
that God gave us that are just abundantly clear.
And that is, God has a plan
and his plan includes his people.
And God's plan was to deliver his people,
the children of Israel, from Egyptian bondage.
He was gonna bring them out so that he could bring them in,
but we find that he's gonna use Moses
and God's plan includes God's people.
And I'm thankful for that.
The second wonderful truth from that passage
that we focused on was that God promises
to be with his people as they do
what he has commanded them to do.
And I'm thankful for the promise of God's presence.
He said, certainly I will be with thee.
And what a precious truth that is,
that God gave to Moses with regard to the task
that was at hand and that Moses would have that promise
that God would be with him.
And so this evening,
and there were other truths that we looked at,
but those two particular with regard to this preparation
for our missions conference,
as we come to this portion of scripture,
as we continue preparation for this special conference,
we come to Judges chapter number seven.
And I really wanna focus on a phrase in verse 21
that I have used for the message title this evening.
I'll read the entirety of the verse.
The Bible says in Judges seven and verse 21,
and they, that's the 300 men,
we'll deal with that in just a moment,
but they stood every man in his place
round about the camp and all the hosts ran
and cried and fled.
I've titled the message this evening,
every man in his place.
You think about the book of Ezekiel,
God gives this indictment that God sought for a man
among them that should stand in the gap
to make up and hedge, but he found,
the Bible says he found none.
And what a sad indictment against the nation of Israel
with regard to that portion of scripture
in the book of Ezekiel.
And as we look here in Judges chapter number seven,
many of us this evening are familiar
with the events that are recorded for us
in the book of Judges.
God's people had entered into the land of promise.
They had conquered, they had inhabited.
The division of the land is recorded.
You go through the book of Joshua.
We find that Joshua gives charges
at the end of the book of Joshua to the people.
There's a series of charges that he gives.
And then the Bible tells us that Joshua died.
You enter into the book of Judges,
you find that there's a little historical data
that's given at the very beginning of the book
with regard to that which I just discussed
with regard to what had just taken place
in Israel's history.
And then you find that the Bible tells us
that there arose another generation
and this generation that rose up,
unfortunately they did not continue to serve the Lord.
And because of their idolatry,
because of their disobedience,
because of their wickedness, God judged them.
And what God did is he raised up certain people groups
to judge his own people.
And he would raise up these particular groups of people
to judge the children of Israel
because of their disobedience.
The children of Israel were not given a free pass
because they were God's chosen people, no.
They had been given the responsibility to live
according to the precepts that God had prescribed.
And he gave them many times a warning.
If you do this, here will be the blessings.
But if you obey not, here will be the judgments
or the curses.
And we find that in the book of Judges,
what would happen is a group of people
would really oppress the children of Israel
and they would be under judgment.
And because of the adversity and the difficulties
they would face, they would cry out to God.
They would promise to not serve the idols any longer.
And God would graciously raise up a judge
and judge that people group that had been oppressing
the children of Israel.
And then there would be a period of time
where there would be freedom, if you will.
There would be no group of people,
no nation that would be oppressing the children of Israel.
And then the children of Israel, after a little while,
they would backslide right back into idolatry
and so on and so forth.
And really the book of Judges is this big cycle
that you just keep reading how that they keep repeating
their history.
It's really a sad period of history
in the nation of Israel's history.
In fact, it's in this book of Judges that we read
every man did that which was right in his own sight.
So we find that as we have some level of understanding
of the content of the book of Judges,
and then specifically as we think about the Judge Gideon,
there are many of us that have heard at least aspects
of the life and ministry, if you will, of Gideon,
of the work that God did through Gideon
to deliver his people from the Midianites.
You can read of Gideon in chapter six, seven, and eight.
We're gonna focus in chapter number seven this evening
and looking at this statement, every man in his place
in seeking to make application with regard
to our responsibility to be in our place.
And as we look at this passage,
if you're taking notes, number one,
they understood their responsibility.
They understood their responsibility.
Now this is really a basic truth,
but the reality this evening is that you will not fulfill
a responsibility that you do not know about.
And so we find here that as we look at this portion
of scripture, the Bible begins in verse number one,
and it says, then Jerubbabel, who is Gideon,
and all the people that were with him rose up early
and pitched beside the well of Herod,
so that the host of the Midianites were on the north side
of them by the hill of Morah in the valley.
And notice in verse number two, the Bible says,
the Lord said unto Gideon, the people that are with thee
are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands,
lest Israel vaunt themselves against me,
saying, mine own hand hath saved me.
God knows the heart of his people.
God knows your heart this evening.
He knows my heart this evening.
And he said that with an army of 32,000 people,
which by the way, they were far outnumbered,
but with an army of 32,000, that if God gave them
the victory, that the children of Israel would be prideful
and arrogant and say, look at what we did.
We conquered the Midianites.
And so God says to Gideon, your army is too big.
And so therefore, we find in verse number three,
the Bible says now, therefore, go to,
proclaim in the ears of the people saying,
whosoever is fearful and afraid,
let him return and depart early from Mount Gilead.
And they returned to the people 20 and 2,000
and the remain 10,000.
Now we understand as you look back in the sixth chapter,
the Midianites, this large group of people
that are gathered, the Bible tells us
that both they and their camels were without number
in verse number five.
We also find that when Gideon was first found,
he is threshing wheat in a hiding place really
so that he could not be seen because at the time
in which the Midianites would see this activity,
they would sweep in and they would take the spoil
and the people were living in fear.
And so these 32,000 people, these 32,000 men are gathered
and God says, tell the people,
if any of them are fearful or afraid, they can go home.
Bam, 22,000 left.
They just left, they just went home.
And so God says they have 10,000 people
and notice what the Lord says in verse number four,
the Lord said to Gideon, the people are yet too many.
Bring them down under the water
and I will try them for thee there.
And it shall be that of whom I say unto thee,
this shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee.
And of whomsoever I say unto thee, this shall not go
with thee, the same shall not go.
So who's making the decision?
God's making the decision.
By the way, God didn't say which group he was gonna choose
until after the test was completed.
And we find that God was the one that was making the choice
and he says to Gideon what to do there in verse number four
and verse five, so he brought down the people
under the water.
The Lord said unto Gideon, everyone that lappeth
of the water with his tongue as a dog lappeth,
him shalt thou set by himself.
Likewise, everyone that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
So there's gonna be two methods by which people
are gonna drink of this water and I want you
to set one group over here and another group over here.
You're gonna divide them based upon how they partake
of the water.
The Bible says the number of them that lapped,
putting their hand to their mouth were 300 men.
But all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees.
to drink water.
And the Lord said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that laughed will I save you,
and deliver the Midianites into thine hand, and let all the other people go, every man
into his place.
Verse 8, notice the Bible says, So the people took vittles in their hand, and their trumpets,
and he sent all the rest of Israel, every man into his tent, and retained those three
hundred men.
The host of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
As we begin to think about the understanding of these three hundred men with regard to
their responsibility, I believe as you look at the text, as we've just read these verses,
they were chosen by God for this specific task.
We find that there were 22,000 that of their own will, they departed when Gideon says whoever
is afraid or whoever is fearful, they can return.
And then as God provides for Gideon this, what seems to be a menial type of an activity
to just partake of some water, that he would divide the group and he would say now this
is the group.
And notice in verse number 7, the Bible says that he gives this promise, God gives this
promise by the three hundred men that laughed will I save you.
In verse number 8, the Bible tells us that Gideon sent the other 9,700 back and those
three hundred men he retained with them.
They're gaining an understanding of what their responsibility is.
God is making clear here to these three hundred men, I believe this evening it is imperative
for God's people to understand their responsibility.
We've been given responsibility.
We have a responsibility to honor the Lord, to glorify God in all that we do.
Whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God, 1 Corinthians.
We find that we understand in the book of John in the 15th chapter that when we bear
fruit that we bring glory to God.
And we find that we as the children of God, we've been given a responsibility to be His
representatives, to be His ambassadors.
We understand that as you study through the book of Acts, you begin to study the first
century church, how those disciples and those early converts, they understood their responsibility.
And it's absolutely imperative that God's people understand that we have a responsibility,
that we're not just walking through life thinking, you know, this is just wonderful and I don't
have anything to do, I have no responsibility, I'm just going to heaven one day.
If all that God had planned for us was to go to heaven, I believe at the moment that
we were saved we'd go to heaven.
But God left us here to be His ambassadors, His representatives.
We have a responsibility.
Let me say this, ignorance regarding our biblical responsibilities does not eliminate our accountability.
See we're accountable to God.
And ignorance regarding biblical responsibility does not eliminate our accountability.
We're accountable.
Every man's going to stand before God.
And there are times in which you, you'll use the phrase, we've heard it no doubt, where
people say you have your head in the sand.
And the idea is that you don't want to be aware of whatever is taking place, but the
reality is that God has given us a perfect preserved book and in this book He has communicated
to His people what His expectations are of them and what our responsibilities are and
we must understand them.
Ignorance is not a valid excuse and it does not eliminate our accountability.
You're not going to stand before God and say, well I didn't know because God said I gave
you a Bible.
I understand and I'm thankful that I've not had this experience, but I understand that
if you have a driver's license that you are accountable if you decide to use that driver's
license to know the laws of the particular state in which you're driving.
And for you to say, I didn't know, is really not a valid excuse for a police officer or
a judge if you took it to a court of law.
Ignorance is no excuse.
And so we must be informed, we must have the truth.
Remember oftentimes you study the New Testament, the Apostle Paul will use this verbiage, I
would not have you be ignorant brethren.
God wants His people to be informed, He's given us this precious book and here as we
use this Old Testament passage of Scripture to bring forth and make some application in
our lives, these 300 men had to first understand what their responsibility was.
They never will fulfill their responsibility until they first understand their responsibility.
So we find as we look at the passage that they understood their responsibility.
Number two, I believe they embraced their responsibility.
I do not read verse number eight in such a way that Gideon had to tie these guys up to
keep them from leaving, that Gideon had some terrible job of trying to guilt them into
doing.
But I believe they embraced this responsibility as it's been given to them.
We find that the size of Gideon's army had been decreased significantly from 32,000 to
300.
We find that these now 300 men are there and when I talk about they embraced their responsibility,
there was a willing acceptance of the assignment that had been given.
In verse number nine, the Bible says this, and it came to pass the same night that the
Lord said unto him, this is unto Gideon, arise, get thee down unto the host, for I
have delivered it into thine hand.
But look at verse number 10, if thou fear to go down, go thou with Purah thy servant
down to the host, and thou shalt hear what they say, and afterward shall thine hands
be strengthened to go down unto the host.
Then went he down with Purah the servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in
the host.
Now let me just pause here before I continue to read.
Understand that Gideon, when he's first approached by God, he is referred to as a mighty man
of valor.
In chapter six and verse number 12, you'll read that, and Gideon's response in verse
15 is, I am the least in my father's house.
And God reveals to Gideon what his plan is to deliver his people from the Midianites,
but again, thinking back to last week, God's plan includes his people.
He's going to use Gideon to accomplish this.
And Gideon is uncertain, and Gideon begins to, really his faith was kind of wavering,
if you will.
And so we find that God graciously gives to Gideon some faith builders.
I'm thankful that our God knows our frame.
I'm thankful that he knows that we're but dust.
And I'm thankful that he knows the struggles that we have, and God graciously, if you were
to read the sixth chapter, I don't have time to go back and to look at all of it, but we
find that the faith builders are given, and God graciously proves to Gideon that God will
indeed use Gideon to deliver his people from the Midianite oppression.
But we find that even after three faith builders in chapter number six, that God still knows
that Gideon needs a little bit more.
See, God tells us that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
We find that God today gives us, he's provided to us his word, and as he gives us his word,
as we feast upon his word, as we're in the Bible, that God will increase our faith.
That God will help us to have that understanding that God is, and God is able, that he is able
to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.
We find that the Bible tells us without faith, it's impossible to please him.
And so if we understand the just shall live by faith, and we understand where faith comes
from from God's word, we need to have our faith increased.
Gideon was in a place where he'd been given an assigned task, but he had to have his faith
increased.
And so here, God gives him his final faith builder, and you pick it back up in verse
number 12, and the Bible says that the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and all the children of
the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude.
Their camels were without number as the sand by the seaside for multitude.
Remember, how many does Gideon have?
He's got 300.
It says this in verse 13, and when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told
a dream unto his fellow, and he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and lo, a cake of barley
bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it, that it fell,
and overturned it, that the tent lay along.
It's kind of an interesting dream.
And notice verse 14, and his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword
of Gideon.
Now, can you imagine Gideon?
Remember, God said, Hey, if you're, in verse number 11, excuse me, in verse number 10,
but if thou fear to go down, go and hear, verse number 11, what they say, and Gideon
and he goes down and he's there and he hears,
he overhears this conversation
and the one fellow's telling his dream
and the other fellow says this is nothing else
save the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash,
a man of Israel, for into his hand
hath God delivered Midian and all the host.
Now that'll get you excited if you're Gideon.
You hear these guys talking, you're saying,
man, this is, what's God doing?
God's building his faith.
And in verse 15, it says, it was so
when Gideon heard the telling of the dream
and the interpretation thereof, notice what he did.
Number one, he worshiped, he worshiped.
I believe that Gideon was praising the Lord
for what God graciously did in building his faith.
He stopped to worship.
You know, sometimes if we're not careful,
we can be too hurried in life
that we just don't stop to worship God.
Remember Psalm 46, be still and know that I'm God.
We have busy schedules, we have busy lives,
we're running all over the place,
got all sorts of things going on,
but we find that Gideon, he stops and he worships.
But then notice it says that he returned
into the host of Israel and said, arise,
for the Lord hath delivered into your hand
the host of Midian.
Who's he speaking to?
He's speaking to the 300 men.
The Bible tells us in verse 16,
and he divided the 300 men into three companies.
So I find that as we look at this portion of scripture
and we see how God increased the faith of Gideon,
but then we focus back on these 300 men
that understood their responsibility,
but now they're embracing this responsibility
that they've been given, they rise up.
We find that Gideon says in verse number 15, arise, why?
For the Lord hath delivered into your hand
the host of Midian, and he divided the 300 men.
It's my understanding as you go from verse 15 to 16
that what those men did is they rose up
as they'd been instructed to do so,
and they were divided into companies
and they were embracing the responsibility.
There was a willing acceptance on their part
for the assignment, for the responsibility
that was given to them.
This evening, it's not simply enough
to understand responsibility.
We must embrace the responsibility.
I believe this evening that it's absolutely imperative
that we understand, but it's not enough.
As we embrace our biblical responsibility,
we find that this is going to take us
to a place of ultimately, in our final point,
fulfilling the responsibility.
We find they understood, they embraced,
but number three, they fulfilled their responsibility.
Without understanding, I said this,
and it's quite basic truth,
that you will not fulfill a responsibility
that you do not know about.
So they first had to understand,
it had to be communicated to them.
They then embrace it, they are all in,
they're surrendered, they're yielded, they're willing.
We find that they then fulfill their responsibility.
Notice the final instruction, these final details
that are provided to these 300 men in verse 16.
It says that he, speaking of Gideon,
divided the 300 men into three companies.
He put a trumpet in every man's hand
with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers.
And he said unto them, look on me and do likewise,
and behold, when I come to the outside of the camp,
it shall be that as I do, so shall ye do.
When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me,
then blow ye the trumpets also on every side
of all the camp and say,
the sword of the Lord and of Gideon.
So, verse 19, Gideon and the hundred men
that were with him came unto the outside of the camp
in the beginning of the middle watch,
and they had but newly set the watch
beginning of the many nights,
and they blew the trumpets and break the pitchers
that were in their hands.
The three companies blew the trumpets
and break the pitchers and held the lamps
in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands
to blow with all, and they cried,
the sword of the Lord and of Gideon.
We find that they did, as they were told,
they followed the instruction that had been provided,
and we come to verse 21,
the phrase that we've used for the title
of the message this evening,
and the Bible says,
and they stood every man in his place
round about the camp,
and all the hosts ran and cried and fled.
And I want you to see here as we understand
that every man is in his place,
that all 300 fulfilled the responsibility
that was given to them.
Ultimately, it's God who gave the victory.
We understand even from the beginning
of reading chapter number seven
that God made it abundantly clear
that your army is too large
because if I give you victory with this size of an army,
you'll take credit yourself,
so I'm gonna dwindle the size of the army down
so that you understand I'm the one
that gives the victory.
We find that the tactics that are explained here,
this is not military strategy
that you'd try to employ today in some battle,
sitting around the desk as you're preparing for battle,
and say, you know, guys,
I think we should take pictures,
and we should take trumpets,
and they're gonna say,
who are you and where did you come from?
This is not the battle plan
that we're putting into place.
But this is from God.
And Gideon accepts what God says,
and Gideon communicates,
and these 300 men,
they simply obey.
They simply fulfill
what had been assigned to them to do.
They fulfill their responsibility.
See, every man in this place,
I begin to think about what's taking place here
in this text of scripture.
It says, round about the camp.
And in your mind's eye,
if you can think about these Midianites,
and you think about their host,
and this large company of people,
the number's not provided to us.
It simply tells us in this chapter
that they're like grasshoppers for multitude.
We find it in chapter number six.
It just simply says, without number.
And we come here,
and we see there's this great host that's there,
that's camped,
and God instructs Gideon to have these 300 men
go around the camp.
And as they do what God had instructed them to do,
as they blow their trumpets,
and break the pitchers,
and held the lamps in their left hands,
and the trumpets in their right hands,
and they blow the trumpets,
and they cry the sword of the Lord and of Gideon.
When these Midianites hear this,
when they begin to see what's taking place,
I want you in your mind's eye to understand
that in any direction that they look,
they only see these 300 men that are in their place.
If there were some that decided,
I don't like the place that was assigned to me,
why are those 100 going over there,
and we have to go over here?
I'd rather go over there.
That looks like a better place.
You know, I don't want to stand next to them.
Why, I don't,
I'm being a little fastidious,
but you understand what I'm saying.
There seems to be, as you look at the text of Scripture,
that there's no break as they circled the city,
as they put themselves around the city.
There's no break point,
there's no exit pathway for the Midianites
to see that there's a large gap
at the northwest corner of our camp
that we can escape out of.
No, any direction that they look,
they see the same thing.
They don't know that there's only 300.
They don't know what's behind them.
They just see that, and the Bible tells us,
of course, God causes great confusion for the Midianites,
and it says that all the host at the end of verse number 21
ran and cried and fled,
and the 300 blew the trumpets,
and the Lord sent every man's sword against his fellow,
even throughout all the host,
and the host fled to Bethshetta,
at Zarephath and to the border,
and you begin to see what's taking place
in this victory that God would give,
and you find how that they are in their place.
They're where they're supposed to be,
and because of that, as you continue to read
the end of chapter seven,
and as you go into chapter number eight,
you find that God wrought a great victory
for the children of Israel,
but they're in their place.
Why do we make such focus on that statement?
Every man in his place, because every man has a place.
Every one of us have a responsibility, personally,
and we need to know what our place is
before we could ever be in our place.
Gideon communicated for this particular passage
of Scripture, and this particular historical event
for the children of Israel,
the assignment had been given.
They knew exactly where they were supposed to be,
and that was their place,
and they had to embrace that so that they
could fulfill what God wanted them to do
with their lives in this particular situation,
but to begin to make action in their lives
is a very terrible thing,
but that interpretation,
if anybody does something in their life,
and then God will secure it,
and that's another thing about it.
So I think that and from that,
the benevolent, righteous, thankful people
application for us as New Testament believers and to begin to understand that God has a
place for us.
That is a place for us.
I think it's worded this way in the junior church decorations, a spot for you.
And the reality is that God has a place for each and every one of His people.
If you're saved by the grace of God this evening, you've been enlisted into the Lord's army.
You have a responsibility to live for Christ, to bring honor and glory to His name, to be
His representative, to be His ambassador.
What a great responsibility.
And again, we cannot take and just say, no, I don't want to hear what my responsibility
is.
We're accountable for it.
I shared the story years ago.
Turn to 2 Corinthians 5, and as you're turning there, I shared this story years ago.
There was a dear lady that was in the church that we attended right after Bible college.
And she was a sweet senior saint of the Lord, serving the nursery ministry faithfully.
And just a sweet lady, and her husband never came to church.
Her husband used to come to church.
Her husband attended faithfully for a number of years, and that was prior to us ever coming
to that church.
And we just never knew really what the circumstances were with regard to why he stopped coming
to church and whatever was taking place.
And there was one particular week that the pastor of our church assigned for Holly and
I to make a visit to this family and try to talk to this man.
And I remember going there, and of course, we had a great relationship with the wife,
and she served in the nursery.
We had little kids at the time, and so she was always taking such good care of our kids
in the nursery.
And we had built a pretty good rapport with her, but we're sitting there and having this
conversation.
And as Holly was communicating with the wife, I sat in the living room and I was having
a conversation with the husband.
It's just a real basic conversation to start out with, and obviously, I was looking for
opportunity to get the conversation to spiritual matters and try to understand what was going
on.
And after just a short period of time of communicating, he looked at me with all sincerity and he
said this, I stopped coming to church because I don't want to be responsible for that stuff.
I don't want to be…
Here's what he said to me, I understand that what I hear, I'm accountable for.
And so if I don't hear it, then I'm not accountable.
And I was about 23 years old.
I was real young, and if you're in that age range, you're real young.
But I was about 23 years old, and no one ever taught me what to say when somebody says that
to you in Bible college.
You know, they don't tell you that kind of stuff.
And so I'm sitting there, and I'm trying to…
And I'm just praying, and I'm trying to think about what I say to this man.
And I said, and this guy, I mean, they were probably in their 70s.
I mean, he was much my senior.
And I looked at him with as much humility as I could possibly have, and I said, sir,
with all due respect, you're accountable whether you come and hear it or not.
You're accountable.
You're going to stand before God one day.
And for you to make yourself feel better by staying home and saying I'm not hearing it
and therefore I'm not accountable to it, you've really just deceived yourself.
I wish I could tell you that that man started coming to church after that, but I don't think
I ever saw him come to church one time the entire time that we served in that ministry.
It was a very sad situation.
This evening, we're accountable.
We're responsible.
God's given us a task.
He's given us a responsibility.
He says it very plainly in the book of Mark, are you into all the world and preach the
gospel to every creature.
And I want you to look in closing this evening at 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and I want you
to understand this evening that the task that's been assigned to us is obviously quite different
than the task that we read of in Judges chapter number 7.
The task that's been given to us is a task to take a message of hope and of peace and
of joy to a people that are lost and dying and on their way to a Christless eternity
in the place called hell or the lake of fire.
It's a task that's been assigned to us as His representatives, as His ambassadors.
And we have this glorious message, I mean the greatest message, the gospel literally
the good news.
The greatest message that could ever be spoken is the message that's been entrusted to us.
And we do not go as the ambassadors or the representatives of Christ seeking to fulfill
this responsibility that He has given to us so that we could earn God's favor.
God loves me.
God loves you.
That's just a settled truth of God's Word, He loves you.
And we find that we are not seeking to go and fulfill this task so that we could earn
God's love or God's favor.
It's not so that we could earn heaven.
You cannot earn heaven.
Heaven is a gift.
Eternal life is a gift.
We find that it's God's love for us that really compels us to do what He's called us to do.
And we find that as we look at this portion of Scripture, that we find that as God would
give us this task, that it's our love for Him, understanding that we have been saved
by the grace of God.
If someone had not given to me, if someone had not given to you this glorious message
of the gospel, we too would be on a path to eternal damnation in the place called the
lake of fire.
But thank God that somebody was willing to embrace their responsibility and fulfill their
responsibility so that we might receive the gospel.
We find that as we come to 2 Corinthians 5, again, you cannot earn salvation.
You cannot work to keep your salvation.
We are kept by the power of God.
Praise the Lord.
I know I've said this before from the pulpit, but if I could lose my salvation, I'd have
lost it right after I got it.
And I would submit to you that you would have as well.
You say, well, I would have made it more minutes than you.
You still would have lost it, amen?
I'm serious.
But thank God we can't lose our salvation.
I didn't do anything to earn it.
It's all by the grace of God and I'm kept by His power.
So it's not a matter of going to heaven as you look at this, but it's because we understand
what we've been given and the fact that we get to be His representatives.
Notice in verse 14, for the love of Christ constraineth us because we thus judge that
if one died for all, then we're all dead.
And that He, speaking of Christ, died for all, that we which live should not henceforth
live unto themselves, but unto Him which died for them and rose again.
You know, the truth of verse 15 is a truth that is powerful, life-altering truth.
Too many people, generally speaking, but even too many of God's people are living for themselves.
They're just living for themselves.
What can I get?
What's going to make my life happy?
It's the here and now.
It's what the tangible, what can I, the temporal.
But God calls us to a different kind of living.
He calls us to live with a focus not on the temporal or the temporary, but He calls us
to live on a focus on the eternal.
And He continues in the passage and says, wherefore henceforth know we no man after
the flesh, yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we
Him no more.
Therefore, verse 17, what a powerful verse of scripture, if any man be in Christ, he's
a new creature, old things are passed away, behold all things are become new.
What a glorious truth.
The power of the gospel to transform people's lives.
It's not reformation.
It's not just going through some step program and just trying to make your, I'm going to
be a better me.
No, the gospel is transforming.
We are a new creature in Christ.
We have a new identity.
We've been made alive.
We were dead in our trespasses and our sins, but we've been made alive.
We've been quickened by the grace of God.
Verse 18, and all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to Himself by Jesus Christ.
What a joy to know that you've been reconciled.
Two parties that are at variance, reconciled, why?
Jesus Christ reconciled.
I couldn't reconcile.
I was guilty and so were you.
The sin of humanity is what put us at variance, but Jesus Christ said, I will pay for that
sin so that we might be reconciled.
It says this, that all things are of God, verse 18, who hath reconciled us to Himself
by Jesus Christ.
And this evening, if you're saved by the blood of Christ, you've been reconciled to God through
salvation.
But notice it says, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation.
So he's now entrusted us with this ministry of reconciliation.
It's interesting in chapter number four of the book of 2 Corinthians, he says this in
Number one, therefore, seeing we have this ministry,
as we have received mercy, we faint not.
We find that God has given to us,
as we look throughout the pages of this book
of 2 Corinthians, this ministry.
Here in chapter number five,
speaking about the ministry of reconciliation,
and I'm thankful that God enables us,
and we do not have to faint to lose heart,
to not know we can be renewed in our inner man,
according to verse 16 of chapter four.
But notice, as we consider this ministry
that God has given to us, he says in chapter number four,
that if our gospel be hidden, it is hidden
to them that are lost.
He tells us that in whom the God of this world
hath blinded the minds of them which believe not,
lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ,
who is the image of God, should shine unto them.
There is a spiritual battle that's taking place.
The God of this world, Satan,
hath blinded the minds of them that believe not.
Why?
Because he wants them to stay lost.
He doesn't want them to be saved.
And then we find that the Bible tells us
that we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus, the Lord.
He tells us in verse number seven
that we have this treasure in earth and vessels,
that the excellency of the power may be of God,
and not of us.
Back to chapter five, he says that we've been given
this ministry of reconciliation at the end of verse 18,
and verse 19, to wit, that God was in Christ
reconciling the world unto himself,
not imputing their trespasses unto them,
and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
Now, verse 20, now then, we are ambassadors for Christ.
As though God did beseech you by us,
we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.
Ambassadors.
Ambassadors, representatives.
You have an ambassador from the United States
that goes to another country.
They have one duty, to represent the U.S.
in whatever territory, whatever country it is that they go,
they're to represent the United States of America
in that territory, in that country.
I said this at the beginning of the service,
not part of the message, but at the beginning of the service,
this world is not my home, I'm just passing through.
I'm a pilgrim and a stranger,
and if you're saved by the grace of God,
you're a pilgrim and a stranger too,
you're heaven bound, our citizenship is in heaven,
but God has left us here on this earth,
we happen to be physically in the United States of America,
as his ambassadors.
So what is it that we're representing?
We're representing his kingdom, we're preaching his gospel,
we're given this ministry of reconciliation.
If we do not understand the responsibility
that has been assigned to us,
there's no possibility that we're ever going
to embrace it, yet fulfill it.
And so we must understand the responsibility,
and then we embrace that responsibility and say,
God would use us to be his representatives.
God would use us to tell someone else
how they too could go to heaven.
It's absolutely amazing that God would use us.
Thinking about all of the possible things
that God could have done, he could have used angels,
he could have, you start filling in the blanks
of what he could, but he decided to use us.
And the question tonight,
how are we doing fulfilling the responsibility?
As we looked at the passage of Scripture
in the book of Judges, the Bible says every man
in his place, understanding that God has a place for us.
And how are we doing fulfilling the responsibility
that God has given to us?
Have we embraced it?
Have we ignored it?
Have we fill in the blank?
But how are we doing?
Because God has given us a responsibility.
And we must recognize this evening that yes,
ultimately to bring honor and glory to God,
and we can do that in a variety of ways,
but according very clearly to John 15,
when we bear fruit, it brings glory to God.
Very plainly and very clearly.
And so this evening, every man in his place,
I wonder tonight, as we would take just a few moments
to examine ourselves, have a time of invitation,
if we truly allow the Spirit of God
to work in our hearts and our lives,
to really evaluate how we're doing in this area
of the ministry that God has given to us.
Because he left us here for a purpose,
and he left us here to be his ambassadors,
his representatives, and there are lost people
that potentially only you will come in contact with,
that God will give you the opportunity
to share with them the glorious gospel.
It may not be that your preacher ever has the opportunity
to meet them or talk with them.
It may simply be that you are the one
that God has placed in their lives,
and he's given to you the ministry of reconciliation.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for the account in the book of Judges,
having the opportunity to see that passage and that event
and to understand those 300 men
and their fulfillment of their responsibility
that had been given to them.
Every man was in his place.
God, as we seek to, from that passage of Scripture,
make application in our own lives
with regard to the ministry that you've given to us
and the call that you've placed upon our lives,
for every child of God, anyone that's a new creature,
anyone that's saved by the grace of God,
that we are your ambassadors,
that you have committed to us
the ministry of reconciliation.
You've promised to go with us, to be with us.
You've promised that your word will not return void.
You promised that your word will accomplish.
You promised that your word is powerful,
and the gospel is the power of God
unto salvation to everyone that believeth.
God, I pray tonight, in these few moments of invitation,
that you'd help us to evaluate our lives.
Lord, that you would help us to be yielded and surrendered.
Help us to not only understand and embrace,
but Lord, help us to fulfill the responsibility
that you have given to us.
We'll thank you for it.
In Christ's name, we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
Kimberly's gonna play quietly on the piano,
and as she does, the altar is open.